# oanda-candles
Oanda forex candle API built on top of oandapyV20

#### CAVEAT:
This is still in rapid initial development and features might change drastically.

new in version 0.0.10:
1. Updated time-int dependency from 0.0.6 to 0.0.7.

new in version 0.0.9:
1. CandleMeister and CandleClient now have a method to get the collector they use
for a specific pair and granularity.
1. Updated some dependencies to latest versions.

new in version 0.0.8:
1. Added CandleClient to manage multiple CandleCollector objects from one object.
1. Plus a CandleMeister that wraps a single CandleClient for easy global access
1. Fixed a bug that was causing too many requests when they were not needed.
1. Had idea for `tail` method as a variant on `grab` method, where it returns only
the newest candle information since the last call to eitehr `grab` or `tail`. Made
a place holder for it, but not implementing it yet.
1. Still behind on unit tests, but still was able to do sand-box testing with market open.
--which is how I found and fixed bug above. This package is still far from prime time ready.


new in version 0.0.7:
1. The `CandleSequence` has been cleaned up and plans to add merging have been abandoned.
1. The `Candle` class no longer has `__lt__` overloaded and `__eq__` is now based on all the values being equal rather than just the candle time.
1. A new `CandleCollector` class is added which is like a higher level `CandleSequence` specifically designed for chart applications that always want a specific number of latest candles. 
1. No unit testing has been added for these changes, they have only been sand-boxed, so they may not work as advertised. Also the market was closed when I sand-boxed `CandleCollector`, so some of its heursitics have not even been sand-box tested yet.



### Oanda Access Token
Using this package requires an access token to a user's
Oanda brokerage account. This module only uses the token to
request candle data, but such tokens can be used to make
trades on the account. It is recommended that access
tokens from a demo as opposed to a live accounts be used.
 
Demo account tokens can be generated by a signed in user here:

https://www.oanda.com/demo-account/tpa/personal_token

**Warning**: Oanda sometimes takes their API down for maintenance.
This seems to mostly occur shortly after the market closes at the end of
the trading week (at 5pm New York time). During the maintenance you
may get a 401 http response that looks like your token is not valid
even if it is.

### Quick Example
Supposing that token is in the env var `OANDA_TOKEN`, one could print
the opening bid price of the latest 100 trading hours for the Aussie like this: 

```python
import os
from oanda_candles import Pair, Gran, CandleCollector

token = os.getenv("OANDA_TOKEN")

collector = CandleCollector(token, Pair.AUD_USD, Gran.H1)
candles = collector.grab(100)

for candle in candles:
    print(candle.bid.o)
```
Note the CandleCollector remembers the candles it downloads and also keeps track of how fresh they are and has
some heuristics about when it should download updates to them, such that you can spam run its `grab(count)` method
in an event loop without worrying about spamming the Oanda API.

### Using CandleMeister
The `CandleMeister` is a single globally available class that manages one `CandleCollector` for each
pair/granularity combination. While the `CandleClient` is the same idea but as an object where you
can have more than one...in those cases where you may want more than one...which I can't think of.

To use the CandleMeister to grab any candles, you must make sure it that it is initialized
with the Oanda token. For example if the env var `OANDA_TOKEN` has your token do the following
right at the startup of your application before you create your widgets:
```python
import os
from oanda_candles import CandleMeister

token = os.getenv("OANDA_TOKEN")
CandleMeister.init_meister(token)
```
Then you can you can grab candles from any module you like (provided you don't do it at import time)
like so:
```python
from oanda_candles import CandleMeister, Pair, Gran

...
def some_func(*args, **kwargs):
    ...
    euro_weekly_candles = CandleMeister.grab(Pair.EUR_USD, Gran.W, 100)
    ...
```
Note that if the `CandleMeister.grab` method was used outside of the function in this
example, then it would probably end up called as your modules were imported before your
were able to initialize the CandleMeister with the token. It is thus recommended you
keep such calls inside callback methods and not try to make them at import time.

### Summary of Basic Usage
1. A `CandleCollector` object is initialized with a token, forex pair, and granularity.
1. To get a list of the latest `count` `Candle` objects at any given time run the `grab(count)` method of collector.
1. The `grab(count)` method is safe to spam call in an event loop without slowing down to poll as the collector handles throttling and caching.
1. Each `Candle` has three `Ohlc` objects, one for Bid, Mid, and Ask prices, and a `time` attribute with the start of the candle time.
1. The `Ohlc` objects have open, high, low, and close `Price` objects

### Understanding Request Ranges.
**Note**: This section is semi-deprecated by the `CandleCollector` which is new in 0.0.7, in
the sense that in most use cases in a candle application it seems to me the `CandleCollector`
is just a better way to go than the lower level `CandleRequester`.

The `CandleRequester.request()` has `start`, `end`, and `count`
optional parameters used to specify how many candles and from when.


 parameter | valid types | valid range | default
 --- | --- |---| ---
start | TimeInt, datetime, None | epoch to now | --
end | TimeInt, datetime, None | epoch to now | now
count | int, None | 1 to 5000 | 500

It does not make sense to set all three of these parameters, but you can
specify any single one of them, or any two of them, or none of them.
The behavior for when they are set or unset is shown in this table:

start | end | count | behavior
 --- | --- | ---| ---
-- | -- | -- | Get latest 500 candles
-- | -- | set | Get latest count candles
-- | set | -- | Get last 500 candles up until the end time
-- | set | set | Get last count candles up until the end time
set | -- | -- | Get the first 500 candles from start time
set | -- | set | Get the first count candles from start time
set | set | -- | Get candles from start to end times
set | set | set | ValueError (there might be a different count in the range)
